website/docs/language/settings/backends/etcd.html.md, before:

---
layout: "language"
page_title: "Backend Type: etcd"
sidebar_current: "docs-backends-types-standard-etcdv2"
description: |-
  Terraform can store state remotely in etcd 2.x.
---

# etcd

**Kind: Standard (with no locking)**

Stores the state in [etcd 2.x](https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/v2/README.html) at a given path.

## Example Configuration

```hcl
terraform {
  backend "etcd" {
    path      = "path/to/terraform.tfstate"
    endpoints = "http://one:4001 http://two:4001"
  }
}
```

## Data Source Configuration

```hcl
data "terraform_remote_state" "foo" {
  backend = "etcd"
  config = {
    path      = "path/to/terraform.tfstate"
    endpoints = "http://one:4001 http://two:4001"
  }
}
```

## Configuration variables

The following configuration options are supported:

 * `path` - (Required) The path where to store the state
 * `endpoints` - (Required) A space-separated list of the etcd endpoints
 * `username` - (Optional) The username
 * `password` - (Optional) The password

Commit message:

Remove 'enhanced' backend type distinction
As explained in the changes: The 'enhanced' backend terminology, which
only truly pertains to the 'remote' backend with a single API (Terraform
Cloud/Enterprise's), has been found to be a confusing vestige which need
only be explained in the context of the 'remote' backend.

These changes reorient the explanation(s) of backends to pertain more
directly to their primary purpose, which is storage of state snapshots
(and not implementing operations).

That Terraform operations are still _implemented_ by the literal
`Backend` and `Enhanced` interfaces is inconsequential a user of
Terraform, an internal detail.

website/docs/language/settings/backends/etcd.html.md, after:

---
layout: "language"
page_title: "Backend Type: etcd"
sidebar_current: "docs-backends-types-standard-etcdv2"
description: |-
  Terraform can store state remotely in etcd 2.x.
---

# etcd

Stores the state in [etcd 2.x](https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/v2/README.html) at a given path.

This backend does **not** support [state locking](/docs/language/state/locking.html).

## Example Configuration

```hcl
terraform {
  backend "etcd" {
    path      = "path/to/terraform.tfstate"
    endpoints = "http://one:4001 http://two:4001"
  }
}
```

## Data Source Configuration

```hcl
data "terraform_remote_state" "foo" {
  backend = "etcd"
  config = {
    path      = "path/to/terraform.tfstate"
    endpoints = "http://one:4001 http://two:4001"
  }
}
```

## Configuration variables

The following configuration options are supported:

 * `path` - (Required) The path where to store the state
 * `endpoints` - (Required) A space-separated list of the etcd endpoints
 * `username` - (Optional) The username
 * `password` - (Optional) The password
